Now, composite queries, they involve
querying on more than one field.
And so the thing about composite queries
is that in Firestore if you wanna
use composite queries, the way you
have to create a composite index.
And you can create them
manually in the console, or
you can just run your query, and
then we'll spit out a link that says hey,
we can't run this query until
you have a composite index.
So click on this link and then it takes
you out to the firebase console, and
it will generate it for you.
You just wanna say yes,
this is the query I want, and
it kinda pops up a little box like this.
You say, create index, and
it's because in this case,
what I'd be doing is I would be
querying on both category and costs.
So that's two fields.
And this requires a composite
index because, well,
let's take a look at how indexing works.
So a lot of databases behind the scenes,
they handle this whole index list.
Where what they do is they take a value
and they associate it with the ID, and
they sort it in a specific order.
So in this case,
this is behind the scenes what a cost
index would look like in Firestore.
Is we have a cost of $0.54 and
it's associated with this ID.
And as you can see as we go down the list,
the indexes are getting greater.
So this is an ascending index.
And if I wanna get where costs
is between $1 and $1.20,
well, that's pretty easy because
I have this nice sorted list.
So it becomes a very fast
operation to do these things.
Well, what happens if I'm
dealing with multiple indexes?
So that's why querying is so fast and so
easy with one field is because
I can easily sort by one field.
But if I wanna do multiple, well, if I
wanna see where category is equal to food,
I have this ordered category
index where I can say, okay,
it's easy to find all IDs of food.
And then for cost,
I have the same ordered index.
So it's easy to find that,
but how do I know,
do those have the category of food?
How do I put those together?
And so
that's why we create composite indexes.
So composite indexes allow you to say,
okay, where category is equal to food,
and where cost is greater than $1 and
less than 220.
And behind the scenes what it
does is it kinda this is a gross
oversimplification of it.
But it concatenates or kinda combos these
together where we have category and
costs food and $1.05, food and
112, and so these are all sorted.
That's what happens when you
create the composite index,
it creates a nice big sword for you.
And then now your queries
are very fast because there
is a custom composite index for
you to query off of.
Now big question that people get when
they learn about composite indexes,
they're like, well,
why don't I have to manually create them?
Why is it that if this is so fast, if this
is good, why don't we just create one on
every single document, and so that way
we could composite index on everything?
Well, the math is not in our favor here.
If you had a document of 20 fields,
it would create this.
I don't know what that number,
was that says troops.
It's a lot, the zeros tell the story.
Someone who knows that you can
let me know, it's a big amount.
So, and that's a lot to keep track of,
that's a lot to sort, and
that's gonna definitely
not be performance.
So we don't do it for every single one,
that's why you specify the fields
we do it on, and I think you can
cover up to 200 composite indexes.
I will have to fact check myself on.
But it's a fair amount that unless you're
running a super high scale application,
most people don't run into that 200 limit
>> Are they're no all in the queries?
>> There is all support that we're
gonna get to in the very next section.
So yes, there is a type of or
support where you can say
get me all the expenses that
are in the category of food or
clothes for whatever reason
you need to run that query.
But yes, there is a way of doing that, and
we're gonna do that in
the very next exercise.
So all queries, yes,
there's support for this.
>> Is there a way to order by date?
>> Yes, so how I specified
order by cost in that section?
You can just use that order by date and
then specify whether descending or
ascending.
For simple queries, just if you're
just squaring on date, all you have to
do is that order by and you don't need
to create a composite index for that.
But if you combine date with other fields,
then you will need to create a composite
index at that point, but
you can still order by date.
>> Is it possible to get
them by a random order?
>> Via random order, a lot of times your
collections will be in random order.
Because documents are gonna be inserted
into collections with generated IDs,
and those IDs are not sequential.
So in the real time database we have
a certain construct called push IDs.
And push IDs all have a bit of a timestamp
element to them they're generated string,
but they're done in a way
where they're sortable.
So as you push new items on to real
time databases and of collection,
we kinda call them like nodes or
locations.
So as you push it on to a child node,
each push sequentially pushes them on,
so they're kinda in a certain order.
With fire store,
there is absolutely no order,
those generated IDs do not
follow a specific order.
So I can add ten records on one by one,
and they can be in some mismatched order.
And that's why we write an order
query where you can order by cost
sorted by this.
So if you're using generated IDs, yes,
you will just by default
have a fairly random order.